From Hansel minutes.com near Tansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing a show
number one 55 recorded live
Thursday, March 19th, 2009. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by teller
red controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottdlerikdotcomandby.net developers journal, the world's
leading that net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode
from Mixo nine, Scott talks
with Pete Brown about the
Commodore 64 emulator Peter's writing
in Silverlight three. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. Also recorded here at
mix in Las Vegas. And
I'm sitting down with Pete
Brown. Who's a Silverlight MVP
and the author of a
blog at irritated vowel, V
O w E L vowel.com.
And he has written something
that is so amazing and
so fantastically wonderful that I
had to grab him out
of the hallway and say,
show me, what is this
on your laptop? I'm looking
at your laptop and I
cannot believe it. This is
what, this is a Commodore
64 emulator in Silverlight three.
So you've written this entirely
in managed code. Yeah, this
is 100% C-sharp managed code.
I'm emulating the real deal.
Okay. And I'm looking at
the ready prompt and it's,
it's got that gorgeous blue
cursor. That's flashing back and
forth. This is not fake.
This is not a video
that I'm looking at. It's
a video, but it's not
a video. Like we might
think of one I'm actually,
you know, using Silverlight three
to generate the frames of
the video based on the
output of the video chip
of a simulated Commodore 64.
So, but you can interact
with this. You can do
whatever you want and it's
using some of the new
cool things that are available
in Silverlight three. So it's
a video in the sense
that you're generating video on
the client side and using
a media control. Yep. So
there's a regular media element
that's in, XAML on here.
And the source of the
video for the media element
is actually my ambulator and
the emulator. You know, I
have a couple of buffers
in there that, you know,
that the Vic chip, which
is a commerce 60 fours,
a video chip, actually right.
To write individual pixels too.
And I swap frames and
just spit it all out
at 50 frames per second.
Okay. So let's, let's dig
into that for a second.
So you have in memory
somewhere, some array that represents
the video buffer. Yep. This
is a, what is this?
Three 20 by two 40.
Yeah. It's like three 20
by 200 or five. Remember
correctly. Okay. So you've got
an, a two dimensional Ray
of three 20 by two
40 by how deep of
color depth. So the color
I went and actually mapped
it to, you know, the
full like 16, I think
it was full 30 to
pick color actually to make
that come out. Right. But
internally, you know, the commerce
64 allows you to have
16 colors. So I don't
really need all those, but
that's just a convener And
it was 16 absolute colors,
not palletized colors. You could
do some funky things with
the chip, if you understood
how to like shift some,
what it really came down
to the voltages and stuff
on there. But yeah, it's
really 69. Okay. But effectively
it's what is that four
bit color. Yep. And that
array is just an array,
right? Yeah. It's just nothing
fancy going on here. And
then the video source. So
you've got the media element
sitting in XAML so you've
got like basically one element
on your page and it's
a hundred by a hundred
and it says, alright, my
source is what, it's an
object. It says, my source
is the class that I
have that implements the new
media stream source API. Okay.
And that's just something that's
built into server layer three.
And I just have to
make sure that I respond
to some of the events
that are in there. There's
an event called get sample.
Okay. And I just, you
know, we'll go a little
bit deeper here, 50 times
per second. I go in
and, you know, get a
sample requested from Silverlight. And
I tell it, here are
all the pixels for this
particular frame. And I give
it the position that is,
you know, one 50th of
a second next and I
keep a counter on there
and then the next frame
gets requested and I increment
that counter for why one
50th of a second. Right.
So they're calling you 50
times a second. Yes, they
are calling you. So it's
a callback mechanism. They're calling
your get sample 50 times.
How would this run on
a slow machine? Wouldn't you
buffer up? If you couldn't
get those fifties out who
would be dropping the frame
server? Are you, Yeah, I
think Silverlight will start dropping
the frames. Cause it's going
to look at the time
that I have assigned for
each frame and it's going
to skip as an essence.
It would work naturally because
from your point of view,
as the producer, you're writing
into memory at the same
time, 50 times a second,
and it's 50 times a
second because the European standard
for pal is 50 Hertz.
Right, Right. Yep. And that's,
you know, a lot of
games and stuff were written
at the time to take
advantage of the, you know,
the number of times per
second that the  would
spit out video. Okay. And
so I, I kept that
emulated. Exactly. Okay. So over
here in my right hand
is his pizza Vic chip
that his writing is managed
code. Vic chip is writing
into this array of 50
times a second, regardless. And
then over my left hand
is silver light, which is
going and requesting it 50
times a second or presumably
less on a slow machine.
And how do you dealing
with contention? Because you've got
these reads, like I'll have
reads coming out of here
and a lot of rights
going in there, you have
to synchronize. And I figured
out right away, you know,
when I started to design,
this is I was gonna
have issues with tearing if
I had like a half
completed array. Right. So what
I did is actually keep
two buffers and it's just
two arrays and well, it's
really, it's one double dimension
array. And I have an
index in there that says
whether you're using buffer one
or buffer two or it's
buffer zero for one. Right.
And so I'm always writing
to one of those and
Silverlight is always pulling from
the other one. And then
when the Vic chip says,
I finished this page, I
go and I swapped the
numbers and then several sites
pulling from the other one.
That's cool. That's pretty clever.
Is that like a standard
kind of comp side? Or
you just come up with
that? I don't know the
right way to do this.
I mean, I'd probably do
something lame, like, you know,
on a, on a, on
a video game, on a
director, 3d it's like sync
on frames, you know, you
click a button and then
everybody has to sync. So
you'd basically make somebody get
in line for a number
of milliseconds. And if he,
if you're not ready yet
you just give him nothing.
Yeah. And well, really what
happens if they, if they're
not ready yet they get
the last frame that's kind
of double buffering. Yeah. So
it's really, it's, it's pretty
traditional, double buffering. Danek very
cool. And it's, it's not
just about contention though, but
it's to prevent tearing on
the screen, which is, you
know, you look, the top
half of the screen is,
you know, frame 21, but
the bottom half is frame
20. And so it looks
a little weird, Especially during
horizontal moves where the tear
might appear at the top
of the screen and then
slowly move its way down.
Yep. Yep. Interesting. So how
did this start? I mean,
help me understand from file
new project and then, you
know, are you standing on
the shoulders of giants and
if so, what are those
giants write the code in?
Oh, sorry. Absolutely. So there
are lots of different C
64 emulators out there on
the net and some are
really good and some are
halfway decent. What I decided
to use for the base
for this was a cycle,
exact emulator called Frodo, which
was written in C plus
plus and C back in
like 94, you know, and
it's been maintained over time
from there. And absolutely there's
no way I would have
gotten this done. If somebody
else hadn't already done the
hard, like electrical engineering type
work that she needed to
have for these. And then
another person who unfortunate, I
can't remember their name went
a few years back and
created a C-sharp version of
much of that. Not a
hundred percent compatible, but they
got a lot of it
over, but all very, very
pointer based, you know, coming
back from the C plus
plus side, it's just all
that was unsafe. It was
totally like almost every function
said unsafe and everything was
dealing with, you know, Which
would make sense because in
the, in, in those times
that would kind of be
how Would port sharp code?
And they did it for
perf reasons, you know? So
I had to translate all
that stuff into totally safe
or re based code Now
why you did that because
that's how the Silverlight works.
I mean, you can't write
unsafe code it's yeah. Right.
And there are deliberately, you
know, moving past the ends
of a raise with pointers
and stuff like that. And
you just simply can't do
that in, in a sandbox
environment. Did you get stuck
at any point? I mean,
this is pretty hairy stuff
because you're basically emulating chips.
You're emulating CPS. There are
chips for input like joystick
and keys. There's chips for
output like sound at, at
what point do you, well,
give me, give me an
idea of where you really
got stuck in. I'm like,
I don't know if I
can possibly finish this. Yeah.
So, and that what's really
funny is that happened a
few weeks ago when it
came time to implement the
drive emulation. So the 1541
drive that Commodore came, most
Commodore computers came with was
actually a whole computer in
and of itself. You know,
it costs more than the
C 64, but that's cause
it had a 65 Oh
two and two K of
Ram and it all its
own IO and everything else
inside it. So you had,
you know, it's just like
the first dual proc machine,
right. It had the, you
know, a whole, a whole
set of processing power inside
the drive. And while I
didn't do the full emulation
of all that, although there
some demos written that use
that, that are pretty neat.
I didn't do the full
emulation of all that, but
some of the things that
they were doing to simulate
reading bites off of sectors
on the desk, they're doing
some really hairy pointer manipulation
in there where they would
take like an unsafe structure
and then they would get
some offset into it that
was like halfway through. And
it wasn't on any sort
of variable boundary or anything
like that. And they would
just start pouring bites into
that structure and then just
read on, you know, and
that, and those bites would
then, you know, halfway through
those bites, it would actually
be a Ray of some
other structure. And so I
had to go and take
all that stuff and figure
out some way to make
that all safe and just,
you know, serialized from a
race. And you're assuming that
it's correct. Yeah. And that's
kind of the difficult thing
is that you picked up
two different projects that are
good. Yep. But they're not
perfect. They don't emulate every
game. They're not, they're not
bite. Perfect. And it really
only takes a couple of
bites to screw well, one
really to screw it up
completely. And I already ran
into that in a couple
of places where, and what's
nice is since there are
so many emulators out there,
I can check it against
those. And I have a
comment on one 28 sitting
behind me in my home
office. Right. So I can
always really check against that
if I want the final
authority on it or almost
final authority. And I'm like,
there's some games where I,
you know, I looked in
and saw that I was
having some weird video issues
on mine. So then I
would go and run the
version of the code that
I poured it from and
see if it had the
same issue. And if it
did, I was like, all
right, well, I need to
go and look at another
source to try and get
a better handle on what's
going on. If they didn't
have the issue, then I
knew it was a mistake
in my port of that.
So what are the iterations
look like? I mean, I
mean, it's not really a
good way to put this,
but when you moving together
like four bites at a
time and from a, from
a, you know, write some
code, run it, test it,
shut it down. Right. A
little bit more. How much
code are you writing at
a time when you're digging
deep into this and what
does it look like and
how much progress are you
making? So then, and the
progress slows on a curve.
Yeah. I understand, like, you
know, it's 2:00 AM, the kids
are asleep, you're working on
this thing. And you know,
my goal tonight is to
get What yeah. And, and
that's what I was doing
was like, I want Sprite
graphics because nobody is going
to get this. If they're
just looking at the blue
screen and I can see
10 print, hello world. Right.
So I wanted to get
the Sprite graphics done. And
what I would do is
I would go through and
get like little chunks of
functionality, like smaller than a
function. And I would say
like, let me see what
it's going to take to
port this. And then I
would see if I had
enough to be able to
run something. It would have
been great. You know, I
could've written some basic test
cases actually in basic, in
on Commodore. If I, if
I had thought about that
before, just now and then
I could have, you know,
tested some of the spray
graphics and stuff. Well, it
really is. You could make
the entire, or, you know,
it it's own test harness
and just right. Run it
up and have a whole
suite of tests. Right. We'll
be using some of the
Silverlight testing stuff. Right? Hi,
it's Scott here from another
place in time. I hope
you're enjoying the show so
far. I apologize for interrupting
it, but I wanted to
let you know that assembling
a podcast like this every
week, isn't free. Certainly the
bandwidth bill crushes us every
month. So I wanted to
let you know that this
show is sponsored by Tellerik.
They make the show possible
and it makes it pretty
cool products as well. For
example, if you're trying to
a web 2.0 Ajax application,
trying to use the web
1.0 components, it's kind of
difficult. You gotta get the
next gen stuff. If you
want to build the next
gen websites. And that's exactly
what the folks at Tellerik
have got and their new
upcoming product, which is code
named rad controls. Prometheus's big
pack, a web controls built
entirely on top of the
Microsoft ASP net Ajax stuff
that you already understand. It's
going to give you a
lot of performance interactivity on
your next project. They mirror
the ASP net Ajax API.
So the development's really straightforward
client scripture's shared loading time
is pretty fast set a
couple of properties. You can
even bind a web services
for really efficient operation. The
new rad editor for ESPN
Ajax loads up to four
times faster than before. And
the rad grid will do
thousands of records and milliseconds.
But of course, it's, it's
better to try these things
for yourself. So you can
visit  dot com slash
ASP, net Ajax, and download
a trial. Thanks a lot
for listening and we'll get
right back to the show.
So you, so you're looking
at the open source code.
You're trying to figure it
out. You say I'm going
to get these 10 lines,
but one of the things
that I've noticed in my
years of writing see is
that there's a lot of
global global stuff. So you
might look at 10 lines
and go, yeah, I get,
I get the intent of
that, but there's side effects.
There's so many side effects
And that's what they would
do a lot with the
pointers. And some of the
CODOs moving over. I'd have
to go and trace back
through. And it was a
really manual process. And so
I have a background in
C plus plus from way
back, I just don't get
to exercise it very much
so I can at least
understand what's going on in
the code, but they would
have, you know, a lot
of global variables or global
to the class where they
would leave the pointer at
some position at the end
of one function that pick
it back up in another
function. And that doesn't work
too well either when you're
translating over to a raise.
So it just, that was
really trial and error and
just tracing through and figure
out what that code was
doing, how much threading is
going on. I have two
threads. There's the main UI
thread and Silverlight, and then
I have a background thread
that's running at one, you
know, one Hertz. So it's
actually just short of one
Hertz. That's a tight loop.
That's simulating all the hardware.
And then actually Silverlight is
probably doing a third for
the video. I'm not sure
about that myself. Right? So
there's, you know, Atmos, there's
probably three threads going. So
Yeah. Bring it down even
into more detail here. What
one Hertz is a thousand
times a second, right? How
are you keeping the four
loop it a thousand times
a second or Rob? A
one megawatt. Excuse me. When
megahertz. Yeah. One megahertz. One
megahertz. Yeah. Is that right?
I think that's okay. Now
we're going to get someone
to call them somebody call
and tell me, I was
trying to 50 Hertz is
50 times a second one.
Hertz is once a second.
Yeah, this is, this is
definitely more than a thousand
times. I'll make a Hertz
one MHC. Yes. Right? Yes.
Now we've just, now we
look silly. Definitely. Yeah, definitely.
Okay. So you've got this
thing going, how's that? How
are you doing that? Because
it's not just like, well,
true. Right? You need to
know how much time you
spend in there because you
need a clock, right? Yeah.
And, and this is where,
you know, Don't feel bad
if it's, if I don't
know, I was just thinking
like, this is where the
folks that released the dotnet
source code needs to close
your ears for a second.
So, Okay. Don't listen, if
you release of, so There
is a, there's a class
that is available in dotnet
called a stopwatch. Right, right.
That is not in Silverlight.
And so I was like,
well, I know I want
to get a high performance
timer, but you know, I
want to see, I know
there's stopwatch and it does
exactly what I want. And
so I looked at it
and actually downloaded source code,
looked at it. And as
like It calls, query performance,
something which is a low
level, wind 32 Call back
is the date time dot,
get T count or get
text or something like that,
which Silverlight does have. Right.
So I was able to
just implement just the fallback
from there. Okay. And so
I built my own stopwatch
and I use that. So
inside the loop, I'm checking
to see, you know, how
many, you know, how many
do I sleep? And then
it sleeps for an amount
of time at the end
of each year. And is,
is, is that detailed enough?
Don't you float as your
synchronization kind of fall off?
It makes me feel like
if you ran it for
an hour or two, it
might, you might get some
synchronization. Right. I'm sure it'll
eventually, you know, have some
rounding errors and stuff in
there though. That'll float a
little bit. But yeah. So
these ROMs, you know, someone
has a video game, I've
got a bunch of common
or 64 disks at home,
you know, five and a
quarter inch floppies. And I
know that you can get
parallel port serial port, and
now some USB port cables
made where you can dump
the binaries off of those,
those things. So if I've
got like epics summer games
or something, I can go
and get my, how, how
big are these ROMs? Like
20 K or something like
that. Most of them, they,
they usually zip them down
to a small size cartridges,
very, but disc for like
a, you know, it's like
120 characters And this is
the raw byte array of
what's on the disc. What
is the format of that?
Is it a, is it
a file system Format? It's
yeah. It's like a little
file system built directly inside
it, but it's using the
CBM dos, you know, file
format. Right. So the file
is the raw bytes from
zero to the end of
the disc, right? Yeah. From
it's all like 34 sectors
or 40. So it's a
file. It's not an executable
that you're right. It is
a, it's an image of
the data, an image of
the data on the disc.
Yep. And, and that's arranged
in such a way that
you can go through and
I go, and I'll take
a look to see like
where the directory sector is,
which is, I think S
like sector HR track 18,
or so you load this
up in an array. It's
loaded up. It's actually in
a stream server, like gives
me a stream when I
do a file open. So
I keep that stream in
the background. Okay. And sequel.
Yeah. It's I go through
and it just, it, it
looks at the offset for,
you know, track 18 or
whatever it is, is going
to be at this particular
offset for these number of
bites. And I go, and
I read in the directory
information from that, and this
is where the old code
used to do, you know,
reads, halfway into a structure
and do a mess there.
But I serialized that into
a structure and it has
a pointer to the next
location for the next directory
entry. And I'd serialize that
in itself. So that's interesting.
So the physical aspects of
things are, it's a stream,
it's just a bunch of
bytes. How much translation did
you do in the sense
of getting it into a
format that your brain could
understand? Did you go and
create a, you know, a
drive or disc image structure
with tracks? Okay. So there's
a standard format called the
, which is, you know,
supported by almost all the
emulators out there. And that
is a 1541 drive disc
image for single-sided desk. Right.
And so I use that
because there are lots and
lots of disc images available
on the internet. I'm assuming
you had licenses to the
game Originally, all that's all
owned these games, wink, wink,
nudge, nudge, Or at least
we all had copies of
them at some point at
some point. Right. And so
I use that format and
just go right through and
support that format. There's a
couple other formats. There's a
T 64 for tape, but
I don't support that. Yeah.
So these formats, you read
them in and you hold
them as, as C-sharp classes
that are in that style.
So how many times are
you running around with just
an array of bytes versus
some real high level? So
it's almost always just, you
know, when I'm getting a
directory that I have some
high level objects that I
read stuff into, but otherwise
it's, you know, the, the
CPS requesting a bite at
this position, I get back,
I send a bite back
and that's the end of
that. And then the next
cycle is requesting another bite
and then whatnot, or it's
requesting a buffer of them,
you know, depending upon what
type of call is being
made. Now the, the big,
the big loop, right. I
mean, with all of these
kinds of things, there's the
wild true. Yep. How do
you decide, well, I'm going
to go look for the
keyboard now, and I'm gonna
look for the choice now
and Oh, now it's time
to write to the screen.
Right. So I used to
do some game programming way
back in C plus plus.
And you, you always had
like the game loop in
the middle of the game
and the game loop did
the same things. Every single
time. You know, it was
before we did event driven
stuff. So first step in
the game loop, you're going
to look for input from
the user and the second
step, you're going to move
your sprites around or your
graphics around. And third step,
you're going to check for
collisions in the fourth step.
You're going to play a
sound and then fifth set.
And only some of those
that just happen every single
time in inside the steps.
You're going to check and
see, do I really need
to do something if not,
then return back. Right. And
so it's the same thing
here. So it pulls the
joysticks, every single loop through
it pulls a keyboard every
single time it goes through
and calls the Vic stuff
for the video every single
time. And there's always something
to happen over there, whether
it's blinking the cursor or
whatever. Anyway. Alright, can you
do this in Silverlight three?
Just cause you could, I
mean, it could have been
in WPF, I suppose it
wouldn't have really bought you
anything. Yeah. I mean, this,
this totally would be better
as a desktop application. Yeah.
Enterprise are now, I mean,
everyone's talking about quake live
now. Right. Forget those guys.
I want to play 64
games. Right, right, Right. And
so like, you'd gain some
advantages by having as a
desktop application. Like, it would
be easier for me to
Mount drives or something like
that and be able to
write them back and do
some interesting things there, but
really it's in several light.
Cause I wanted to show
that you could do this
in Silverlight and it's such
a weird edge case that
I don't think anybody would
really think about doing a
full emulation here. Well, and
it's important to point out
for those that aren't at
mics and maybe haven't been
following things if this isn't
a, this is a build
of Silverlight three. This is
not running in the browser
right now. No, this is
an outer browser application. And
the reason why I have
this out of browser is
so I can get all
the function, keys and stuff
that the browser normally swallows.
So there are probably some
ways to get around that.
I'm just, you know, I'm,
I'm not a great, So
this was an example where
you needed something in the
browser didn't provide. Yep. You
jumped out, not all the
way out to the WPF
side of things, which I
suppose this would be trivial
to port to. Yeah. It
should be pretty easy, but,
but you're living outside of
the, that you have this,
this host application that's around
you and this is like
SL browser dot exe or
something. Yup. And I've got
it. It's fully scaled to
my whole screen. Yeah. I'm
just scanning it. If you
resize this now will it?
Oh, absolutely. So I'm just
using it And you don't
have to do anything cause
it's a relaxed doing it
for you. Yep. It's just
a normal video that like
any other videos. Thanks. It's
can you right click and
say like pause or it
doesn't really know that it's
a video. If I put
in UI controls deposit, I
definitely could, but I, you
know, server light itself never
has that. So what are
some other, so the out
of browsers, a big aspect
of things you're running this
as a hosted application, as
it's only XE, what other
things could you not do
until several like three came
out? Because I know that
you said you did this
in several, like two and
then stop when you get
to. Right. And so the,
you know, way back in
the early days of several
eight too, there was no
way to push pixels out
to the screen, you know,
just to fill up some,
you know, space on the
screen, like an inch. And
I think Peter Blois and
a couple other people came
up with some ideas for
how you, maybe it was
just segment, I think put
out an example of a
PNG generator. And I mess
around with that a little
bit, but the perf on
that is not 50 frames
per second. So that was
Generating 50 PNGs and spitting
them out and drawing them
Your second. And, and so
that kind of worked, but
you know, I was definitely
tapping the CPU at that
point. And so survey three
had two, two options that
came out and, you know,
as part of the insiders
program, I was playing around
with some of the builds
early on and I use
the new pixel, the bitmap
API originally. And I started
pushing out 50 bitmaps a
second. And originally that didn't,
you know, perform really well,
but now it's on par
with what I'm doing. So
I could actually go either
way with this really. But
then for some reason, you
know, I started messing around.
It was actually Peter Boise
suggested, say, why don't you
just have it spit out
a video? And it just
never occurred to me. Well,
why would it such a
weird thing to say, Then
you think, well, what's the
Commodore 64 doing, it's spitting
out a video it's spitting
out like, you know, 50
frames per second, a video
that nobody You go to
your television and it's such
a nice way to do
it because it lets them
worry about the buffering. It
makes us double buffering problem.
And nonissue. I wrote a
web cam application to pull
frames from the baby cam
the nanny cam and put
it into a widget in
a Vista widget. And it
was a matter of just
getting bitmaps and throwing them
over the, you know, it
was a poor man's video,
right? Because I didn't have
those constructs, those high level
constructs where I would actually
have a video source. And
I think that's an interesting
aspect of this. And I
let you know on a
slow machine and I haven't
actually tested on a slow
machine yet, but on a
slow machine, several I can
manage dropping frames. You know,
I don't have to put
anything in there. That's going
to get stuff out of
sync with the keyboard input
or I've tried it on
a Mac yet. I have
not. Now I will say
one thing that the reason
I haven't tried it on
a Mac yet is because
several, it gives you a
certain set of key codes
that it'll recognize and map
for you automatically the keyboard
yeah. From the keyboard. And
then there are some keys
that are not mapped, which
are things like the bracket
key and you know, the
little slash key, the pipe
key, things like that, which,
you know, I think just
to keep the working set
small. And so I don't
know what the keyboard codes
are for those on the
Mac. And so I have
platform specific key code hooks
in here just for windows
on it. I noticed when
you hit shift too, which
is an on an American
keyboard is an add sign,
but on a Commodore, it
was a double quote. Yep.
It was a double quote.
So you kind of through,
and the right bracket is
a, you know, the Astros.
And so if you have
a comment or you always
have the type load open
quote, asterisk closed, quote, come
a come a one for
many of us, that's all
we did most of the
time. Cause we just played
games all on them and
you have to have that
map, right? Complicated. Is this
how many lines of code
are we talking about? Are
we talking a thousand lines,
10,000 lines? That's a lot
of lines of code. You
know, I've never actually done
a, you know, kind of
a code counter. I'm looking
at your project here to
see if it's something it's,
it's a big project. It's
pretty cool. You look like
you've got about 40, 50
CS files in there. Yeah.
There are a lot. And
some of those CS files
like the one for the
Vic chip and the one
for the CPU have just
an enormous switch statement, which,
you know, we'd like to
normally keep your switch statements
pretty small, but when you
have to have one switch
statement for every op code
that the CPU would normally
have, it gets pretty big.
Even for something as simple
as the apex. Sure. I'm
looking at your code here.
And I think it's interesting.
You've got Dan, you know,
a lot, a lot, a
bit shifting a lot of
manipulation of, yeah. I mean,
this is just piles of
pitch. If you can matrix
math and yeah. That doesn't
look like any fun code
to write. It's not necessarily
fun to write it. But
then when you see that
doctor who is walking across
the screen Yeah. That doctor
who running the video game
and that's just totally worth
it at that. That's amazing.
Wow. So what are the
plans with this? Where are
you going to release this
as open source? Give it
to the people. Yeah. So
the, the code right now
is sort of lab quality,
but you know, I think
it'd be good for people
to have it so they
can see how it works
and you know, and just,
you know, play with it.
My next step is there's
another emulator out there for
the commerce 64 called the
vice emulator and they take
a totally different approach to
how you emulate the common
or like this one does
cycle exact Scanline emulation is
very CPU intensive and the
vice one is event driven.
Although I'm not entirely sure
what that means in this
context, but it's much easier
on your CPU. So I
was thinking, I might actually
give a hit of, now
that I understand the architecture
of the Commodore. Right. And
I could port something else
over without just doing a
line by line port, but
really understanding like what the
parts do. So is there
a code here? You don't
understand? There, there are a
couple of things, but you
still don't get it. There
are a couple places I'm
like, I don't know what
that's doing right there, but
it appears to be working.
Yeah. But then I've learned
an awful lot of the
other spots here that I
knew a lot more about
the guts of a
than I did when I
was using it back. And
how did you learn a
lot about guts of server
line? Yeah. Was super light
in your, this is a
weird question, but was it
in your way at all?
Was several like in my
way, well, since I specifically
wanted to do this in
Silverlight now the reason I
ask is that I've been
doing a lot of asp.net
MVC right now. And I
like that as a framework.
It's not in my way.
Right. I'm not like I
can't get out of my
way framework. Right. And I'm
wondering, do you feel constrained
inside of several layers? I
mean you're managed code. Yes.
I'm writing managed code and
I don't have pointers. Right,
right. So that's the that's
really, the big thing was
I don't have pointers, so
I have to do all
this stuff in a race,
but it's like big deal.
And you haven't reached any
perf issues to the point
where you need to actually
use a profiling. No. So
I was looking here, I've
seen various places where you're,
you're casting and some stuff,
and you're, you know, you're
probably some boxing in there
that may or may not
be I'm intentional. I know
where my perf problems are
in this app that I,
that I want to take
care of. And that's, you
know, I did a lot
of let's just get it
working and see what happens.
So they're in a lot
of, I'm doing a lot
of array copying as opposed
to sending offsets into array.
So like, you know, they
would pass around in the
old code. They would pass
around like pointers to an
offset, into an array of
characters. Right, right. For different
reasons. And I'm doing like
a, you know, a subset
of that array, which is
a copy of that array.
And I send it over
to the functions and then
do something right. And I
know all that array. Yeah.
I know all that array
copying is, is where I'm
taking a hit. It'd be
really, really interesting to profile
and see, cause a, you
know, with the faster machines
with managed code, the whole,
you're not going to need
it is so true these
days. And you might find
that that's not that big
of a deal and it
might be something we didn't
even think of. Right. Well,
this is fantastic. A few
people can check out your
blog@irritatedvowel.com or you're on Twitter,
Twitter, Pete underscore Brown, Pete
underscore Brown. And if there's
any she's 64 enthusiast, are
you to the point where
you're interested in folks that
maybe have written emulators, you
might be listening and will
absolutely help out a little
bit. I mean, this is,
you know, I'll, I'll stick
this stuff out on code
Plex and anybody who is
interested in playing around with
it or contributing to it
and stuff, please help yourself.
I mean, this is just
cool stuff. Awesome. Well, thanks
so much, Pete Brown, I
heard Mixo nine in Las
Vegas and this has been
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And I'll see you again
next week. .